---
layout: base
title: Technical Director - Artifical Core
author: Carlos Kelkboom
date: 2024-03-01
---

# Technical Director - Artificial Core

I cannot begin to state how grateful I am for the opportunity to build a game. I love games, especially MMO RPGs and to be working on one is a privilege. It comes with extreme technical challenges and unique opportunities to improve myself. This article is an accumulation of experiences I had over the last year(s). It will be critical at points but I want to make it very clear, creating a game like Corepunk is amazing and I would not trade this experience for anything!

## Core tasks

My day starts with me doing some deep work from 6 to about 9. This is a three hour window where I either sit down and try to code something or I spend that time writing documentation which serves as input for the team. After that I talk to most developers and see how they are blocked. We are fully remote and so everyone trickles in at a different time. At 13:00 we have our standup and after that, the day is flooded with design meetings and alignment meetings. 

The process part I had to really come to grips with was that we do not take planning as serious as in other companies. We mostly assume that *stuff gets done*. We do not linger on the process of estimating and we even think that estimations of a week are not realistic. What I have also noticed is that features cannot be finished in isolation. Almost every feature touches: dev, art, integration, qa.

This balance between productivity and planning is a difficult one. New important features come up every day and focus shifts faster than I have ever noticed in my career. I believe this is because 


<a id="_drawer--opened" href="/blog/resume/" class="sidebar-nav-item ">
  Back to Résumé
</a>